How is Himalaya's formation? Himalayan formation? You've already seen Himalayan formation Himalayan formation. Why is Himalaya form? It is formed because of the CC collision. It is formed because of the CC collision between the CC collision between the ration plate ration split and the Andy India plate, the Indian plate and the Eurasian plate. The quote They both collided and led to upliftment of the Himalayas. One the second is so. There are three important ranges. Great Himalayas and middle Himalayas. Take. If I say they have been uplifted, they have been uplifted. What? The Marine? Uh, I should say this. They are uplifted marine sedimentary rocks. They uplifted marine sedimentary rocks. They are uplifted Marine sedimentary rocks. See here, all of you. Did you understand what is happening? Himal formation. We are talking about Himal formation. This is the Indian plate. The Indian plate. And this is the Eurasian plate. The Indian plate along with the the Rock Marine Marine rocks. They are sedimentary rocks. They are sedimentary rocks. TK. They got uplifted both for the Great Himalayas and the middle Himalayas. But what happened for Shivali? What happened for scans? These are uplifted, uplifted fluvial deposits. These are uplifted fluvial deposits. OK, just write this down. I will explain each of these things to you. Ok, first write this down So uplifted fluvial deposits See how is Himalayas formed? The Himalayas is formed when the Indian plate When the Indian plate it actually collided with the Eurasian plate. So this is your Eurasian plate. This is your Indian plate. Indian plate is Indian Plate ya There was this tti C There was this tesi katta So Teti is basically nothing but a very long depression. It was a very long depression. OK with with shallow wits Sediments with marine sediments, Marine sediments Have you ever seen have you ever seen? So It's like if this is your beaker, take beaker ba I have put one stretched rubber stretched balloon many years stretched balloon Dalia beaker! And now I am putting sediments Putting sediments, Putting sediments, Sediments! Do you think the the stretched membrane will actually sink? There is a beaker on which I have put a stretched membrane. I'm putting sediments in it In it In it the sediments will sink the the the stretched membrane will sink again. Consider tea like this. Consider the tea like this. You are in the tea. Not many sediments were formed. Sorry, marine sediments. These marine sediments were deposited. See, these marine sediments were deposited. And you call this type of structure as what you call this type of structure as a geosyncline. You call this structure as a geosyncline T so that this is nothing but a geosyncline. It's a large depression. This mean marine sediments, marine rocks, hand oceanic Roshan. Take now Imagine Now imagine between these two continents, there is a tea where there's a lot of sediments deposited. Now, if there is collision, if there is collision, will these sediments be uplifted? Yes. So these upliftment of the sediments that is the great Himalayas and the Middle Himalayas, the great Himalayas and the Middle Himalayas uplifted because of the tea and the Geos incline depression. So this is about the formation of the great Himalayas and the middle Himalayas, Um, of great Himalayas and the Middle Himalayas. The composition of the rock is not safe. The composition of this this and this is not safe. Why? What is Shivalik? What is Shivalik? See if this is your great Himalayas. If this is your middle Himalayas and imagine this is a depression. And imagine this is your Latin OK? Can you all imagine this? This is your great Himalayas. This is your middle Himalayas. This is your trans Himalayas. This is your ration plate. This is your ration. Click. Take care. Abili. Has Cheval been formed? No. There is no shivali as of now. Now what is happening? What is happening here? The rivers, the rivers. They are flowing into this depression. The rivers they can cut across the Himalayas. They can cut across the Himalayas and deposit the sediment. Here. Take care. The sediments will be deposited at this depression. Are these sediments? Marine sediments? Are they from Marine? That means from the ocean. Are they from the ocean? No. Are they from the rivers? What do you call sediments from the rivers? You call them as the Fluvial sediments. These are Fluvial sediments. Now imagine now. Imagine there is again. There is again convergence between the Eurasian plate and between the Indian plate between the Eurasian plate and the between the Eurasian plate. Will these sediments be uplifted? What will we have then? We will have. We will have a formation like this. We will have the formation like, OK, this is your ration plate. This is your trans Himalayas, Middle Himalayas, great Himalayas, middle Himalayas.
